The story of how I got into coding is a little bit different. First, I must say that I am a hobby photographer. At some point, I decided to buy an additional keyboard specifically for photographers. I was really excited about the new tool and waited several days for the package to arrive.

After I plugged the keyboard into my computer and tried to use it, there was a bad awakening for me when I realized that the software was not compatible with this type of keyboard. I was absolutely frustrated and started Googling about how I could program it to work. After trying different approaches, I came across AutoHotkey. Within a few days, I solved my problem and got the new keyboard to work.

After I realized the power of AutoHotKey, I kept learning and wrote some scripts for my current job. I automated various tasks to speed up my workflow. Once my colleagues saw these new tools, they also wanted to use them, so I installed the scripts on their computers as well. However, I encountered some new problems: not all of my colleagues use the same shortcuts, and they didn't want to use all of the new workflows like I did. So, I created a GUI that allowed everyone to decide which of the new tools they wanted to use. There were also options to customize their own shortcuts and folder paths as they desired. All of the different options were saved in an INI file and loaded on system startup. At this point, all of the scripts were located on every PC, and like any software, there were a lot of updates and new features to implement. After I had twice installed the new version on six different machines, I realized that this wasn't the right approach.

I decided to store the whole scripts on our server and wrote a small script that I installed on every machine to run on system start, which would run the scripts from the server. This works perfectly for me. However, I realized that I still couldn't update if someone was still logged in and using the scripts, so I wrote an overall watch script that I could enter from my PC and kill all instances of the other PCs from there. After pushing the update, I restarted all the scripts from my machine to the others. That was the final result, and from there I was able to update a lot of new features.

I had now gained a foundation in the core concepts of programming and I started learning a new language. VBA was my next target, and I used my new knowledge to improve my construction workflow. I learned all about VBA and iLogic in a few weeks and wrote some scripts that my colleagues and I used all the time. They were all grateful for the improvement. After studying a lot and realizing that coding is a lot of fun, I wanted to dive deeper. I realized that this path could become a future job and started my research. At this point, I wanted to learn more and build up a portfolio, so I chose to start with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. I had the idea for a recipe app with a "coincidence" button to decide which recipe to cook.

Over the next few weeks, I learned and worked on my app. Day after day, I had new ideas for the app and I also wanted to include a weekly plan and a shopping list. After some time and different versions of the app, I realized that I needed a deeper knowledge of JavaScript. I finished the complete course on freeCodeCamp and simultaneously took some Udemy courses.

I continued learning and coding for a few months. On this path, I also learned all about Git and version control. I started creating my own portfolio page to introduce myself to potential employers. At this stage, I also learned about the benefits of Sass and Parcel.

At the moment, I am learning all about Node.js and React. On my future list is learning about databases. I am also really interested in data science and machine learning.
